# ChestXrays-Classification-Deep_Learning

The purpose of this thesis is the classification of medical chest x-ray images with the use of deep learning approaches. The classification procedures that were tested are based on Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs). CNNs are some of the best pattern recognition techniques, especially when it comes to classifying medical images. They have differences in terms of their architecture, their depth, the activation functions and their general configuration. In the present dissertation we examined architectures that exhibit distinct behavior in the classification of medical data. Among those, we chose seven different ones, which were tested during the experimental process. The chosen architectures are: VGG16, VGG19, ResNet50, ResNet152, MobileNetV2, DenseNet121 and NasNetMobile. In order to train and test our models, chest x-rays were used as medical data, which were classified into 3 categories: Normal (lungs without any infection), Covid-19 (lungs infected with Covid-19) and Pneumonia (lungs with pneumonia). Specifically, the NIH (National Institutes of Health) Database containing a total of 6432 images was used. Regarding the categories, the Normal category contains 1583 images, the Covid-19 category contains 576 images and the Pneumonia category contains 4273 images. The images are in .jpeg format and have a 24-bit depth. Also, all the Neural Networks used were pre-trained in the vast amount of ImageNet database. These seven networks were trained and tested in six experimental procedures: one without preprocess , one using the ZCA technique, one without preprocess and 1 additional Dense Layer, one using the ZCA technique and 1 additional Dense Layer, one without preprocess and 2 additional Dense Layers and finally, one using the ZCA technique and 2 additional Dense Layers. Through the experimental process we found that all the CNNs we used had better results by adding 2 additional Dense Layers. Also, the DenseNet121 network responded better overall to our data set. This was expected, as DenseNet121 is one of the most advanced Convolutional Neural Networks.
